(upbeat music)
The next type we have is object.
I told you we'd do Booleans
but I'm saving that until we hit equality.
So, objects in JavaScript
are probably the biggest building block,
meaning that everything in JavaScript is an object,
and I know I keep saying that,
I'm gonna tell you what that means in a coming video,
but generally, objects are used for collections of data
or in collections of functionality,
and actually, we get into sort of custom things
like arrays and dates and all kinds of neat things
and they all are built upon JavaScript.
So, we are obviously gonna go much more into objects
throughout this course, we have an entire section on it,
and we will be using them throughout all of our examples.
But for now, we need to know
that when something is an object in JavaScript
is 'cause we want to group things together.
So we've been using name and age and first and last examples
and they have just been random variables that we have.
So, we have, like, const name is equal to wes
and const age is equal to a hundred.
That's not all that great
because they're not associated in any way.
So, what we can do is we can create an object called person
and we put a semicolon at the end of that
because when you want to make an object,
you use a set of curly brackets.
We'll talk about other ways to make an object.
That's by far the most common.
And then inside of that person,
you have what are called properties and values.
So, we can say first: 'wes'
and last: 'boss'
and my we'll put age as 100.
So, what we've done here is we've create an object
which allows us to group together sort of like subvariables.
I'm doing air quotes right now,
you can't see me but, air quotes, subvariables,
meaning that we have the first, the last, and age
all contained within an object
or a collection that is the person.
Now, if we take a look at that person here,
you'll see that it returns to us an object.
We can do typeof person and it gives us an object.
And if you open up that object,
you see we have our properties: age, first, and last.
You might be saying, "That's not the order we put them in,"
we'll go into that, but the short and skinny of it
is that order doesn't matter in an object.
They can be in any order.
If you need order to matter, then you use an array.
And then inside of that, we have our three properties.
To access the properties,
there's a couple different ways we can do it.
I'm gonna show you the easiest
which is person.first, person.last,
and person.age.
So we use the dot notation there.
When we get into the full-blown objects,
I'm going to be detailing a couple other ways to do it,
as well as things like nesting objects
and object versus reference and copying objects
and there's so much that we need to learn about object.
The last thing we need to talk about
is the last type, and that is a symbol.
What we need to know about it right now
is that it is a way to do unique properties
or just unique identifiers in general in JavaScript.
That's all we need to know about it right now.
And anything else I would tell,
it would be a little bit too deep-end
because it's something that is used more
in lower-level libraries and by more advanced users.
I personally don't even use them all that much, or ever,
in my JavaScript, so don't worry about those just yet.
Just know that a symbol is one of the types.
And if you ever have to have a interview question
being popped up, just remember, what was our silly acronym?
SNOBUSN.
So, string, number, object, Boolean,
undefined, symbol,
and null. (chuckles)
That's what they all are
and hopefully you'll nail that interview.
Let's just into the next one which is null and undefined.